commands
git config --global push.default upstream
git config --global merge.conflictstyle diff3

What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?

2/25/2016 Wednesday 7:12 PM

When a repository is initialized, a whole new directory is created. 
It starts off brand new. 

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? What value do you think it offers?

2/26/2016 Thursday 12:28 PM

staging area is not a full commit, but rather an almost commit area. Versus the repository when everything is a snapshot. or a working directory where both the hidden and unhidden files can be seen but may be committed yet.

How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?

2/26/2016 Thursday 2:34 PM

Took a lot longer to get to this point than anticipated. Struggled to get sublime text editor linked. finally had the reference include x86, then adding the spaces and \ around the \(x86\) part. struggled to try to add a message when using the git committ for the reflections repository
finally made it here! to answer this question. forgot about asteroids.js
as for answering the questions
the staging area can be used to show that there is only one file waiting. This allows the user to verify that only 1 file will be committed at a time.
this struggling is good though. means I'm learning and growing.  

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? How would branches help?

2/26/2016 Thursday 3:13 PM

 Branches are very helpful when wanting to try something new. Or completely rewrite the code. The working copy is still valid. But if there is a merge between a branch and the main, it would be clearly labeled. Each branch would have a unique name to identify what the modification is. 

How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?

2/26/2016 Thursday 7:17 PM

The diagrams really help me map out how the different branches are related. When they diverge. How is it possible to merge again.Just provides a really nice picture to understand everything better. 

What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?

2/26/2016 Thursday 7:49 PM

The result is having more code combined or efficient or more features than before the commit. Its represented properly in the branch becuase the files are really being combind into 1 main file. 

What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges manually?

2/27/2016 Saturday 4:15 PM

Pros: automatic merging: very quickly merge hundreds or close to thousands of lines in very little time
much faster than manually going and performing a merge

Cons: possiblity of having errors of not working after merge
method name not recognized with rest of the code 

Pros: manual merge - always able to make sure that you know what code is being selecting from each 
practical when merging from 2 different areas and very different methods or variables

Cons: much slower, more tedious, easy to make mistakes on the same type of code